>> Steve Kinney: We got
this app called Socialite.
It's a social media app.
It's got an idea of a form, but let's go,
I'll sign up and let's see.
I'm gonna say that my username is,
let's go with finnthehuman again.
finnthehuman, password would be password.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll sign up.
Maybe I'll hit the button right.
We can see that there was a post in
here from somebody else, seems handsome.
We'll go ahead and we'll say hello, and
then we're gonna pull up another app,
just for fun.
Because sometimes if you work really hard,
you just wanna stare into the void for
a little bit.
That's how I feel after live coding for
too long.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, that WebSocket
error, don't worry about that.
That's Vite compiling my assets, saying,
I didn't wanna deal with Tailwind and CSS.
This is fine.
Your server's running, and
that's the important part.
And especially for the void where
if we look at it, it's on 4009, so
let's go put that in another tab.
>> Steve Kinney: It's peaceful,
it's serene, it's good, right?
We could even go look at the code for
the void.
And if we look at the server,
basically a static file server, right?
It's got no routes to speak of.
It's got this one HTML file, right,
which got a tiny little bit of markup,
I guess some Tailwind.
And that's it, a simpler time on the
Internet, almost as it was meant to be.
Wait a second.
>> Steve Kinney: I didn't post that.
What happened?
How did this happen?
>> Steve Kinney: Take a few minutes so
you can figure out how I just got hacked.
It might have something
to do with the void.
That might have been a complete
red herring [LAUGH] yeah.
So I would check there, see if we can
figure out where things went down cuz
there was no JavaScript in that app.
>> Steve Kinney: Did anyone
find it where my issue is?
>> Steve Kinney: Yep,
like I said in the very beginning, one,
GET requests that change state,
bad cuz they can get called from anywhere.
And two, your CSRF attacks don't
need to come from JavaScript, right?
And three, yeah, this is that bug we're
talking about that got Twitter in
the kinda early days and some other ones,
which is this one was hiding in
a background URL where, yeah,
that background doesn't load.
The black background still works,
but it does send the GET request,
right, which does have the kinda
cookie attached to it as well, right?
And so that's kind of like
nature of CSRF attacks.
So the void is everyone's favorite public
service announcement of don't include
your CSRF tokens in a GET request, but
also don't even do it in a form, right?
Because remember we're talking about
you can secure your cookies and
have HTTPS, right?
HTTPS is great, use it and it will encrypt
all of the bodies of your requests.
But GET requests don't have bodies, right?
So it means if you have a form with method
GET, they all become query params and
you can't encrypt query params cuz
that's not how URLs work, right?
The browser doesn't know where to send it,
doesn't know how to get through
DNS all the way to the server
if the URL is encrypted.
So the moment that you
have a form with a GET,
not only do you leave yourself open to
what we've talked about previously,
because then you have
an endpoint with a GET.
But you are also then transmitting your
CSRF token, which everything, obviously
anything man-in-the-middle, any packet
sniffer can man-in-the-middle that.
Also, this story is short,
so I will tell it to you. Never include
any kind of PII in a query param, right?
Or you will join me in the pantheon of
people along with my co-worker Alex,
who had to spend way too much time on the
phone with third party trackers, right?
Because email addresses and
stuff like that are PII.
And the European Union doesn't like
when you let PII sleep in other
people's databases and you need to
be able to clear that stuff out.
And not only on a security
level with your CSRF token,
but also with any kind of PII.
Even if you're trying to do
a search where it's like,
I just wanna have the filter in the query
param you do for everything else.
Not if it's any kind of personal
information cuz that is gonna
get transmitted in cleartext
over the Internet, right?
Phone numbers, email addresses,
Social Security numbers,
if they are in a query param in any way,
shape, or form,
they are public data, and
you probably don't want that.
So GET requests, again, there's no
world that you should have to do that.
But even search, if it's email address,
you gotta find something.
You gotta put it in the body or
in a header or something.
Referer-based validation, yes,
referrer is spelled wrong there cuz it's
spelled wrong in HTTP headers,
and now we live with it.
Which is to say when you go from one
site to another, it says, who sent you?
One, that's not reliable cuz if someone
puts a no referrer in the "a" tag,
you're not gonna get it.
And two, it is very easy to spoof.
You can check for that also if you
really want to, but also a lot of times,
it will be missing and
it's not particularly reliable.
There's another pattern which is let's
say, I cannot put this in the form for
any reason whatsoever, right?
One is to then have your cookie, and
then what's called double-signed,
which is then you take the cookie plus the
CSRF token and you sign it again, right?
If you can get away with not doing this,
you can look it up.
It's an alternative, it exists,
if you need it.
I would caution you that it
is a lot more of a hassle.
If you can render it in the page, great.
Even if you have to somehow fire
a request to get it in Ajax,
and then attach it to the fetch request.
If you truly need it in the header, you
can do some of the stuff we'll see later
with password hashing and
try it out like that, cool.
There's another option too, right,
which is CRSF attacks are effective
when it's easy to perform the action.
A single POST request will do it.
So another decent way particularly for
serious and
destructive actions is to just
not make it easy [LAUGH] right?
And I think an example that
you've probably seen before
in the past is deleting a repo on GitHub,
right?
So if one wanted to go delete a repo,
you start out with this modal says,
I want to delete this repo.
Then you have to do another request.
And finally, you do need to
type in the name of the repo.
Now that's technically somewhat
of an unpredictable thing.
So there's multiple steps in there as
well, right, which makes it a lot harder
to just hide a background URL somewhere or
click a submit form, right?
It's just to make it a lot harder,
make more of a back and forth.
You can argue that there's a lot of
overlap between what we did with the token
and this, which is it's not
whoever does a CSRF attack.
This is also to save you from yourself,
too.
So this isn't just a security thing.
This is also before you
delete your company's repo.
But I think it's sort of the same
thing of there's a lot of back and
forth that needs to happen.
And with CSRF attacks,
you can't do that, right?
You can send requests, but you don't get
the responses cuz it was never in your
browser or your code to begin with.